Welcome to the program. Our theme this month is organized to do God's will.
Among other things we will look at how our young brothers can be encouraged to reach out
so as to take the lead in the congregation. You will also enjoy this report on the blessings
around the world from using carts in our ministry and we'll find out how the organization
makes sure our meeting places are properly utilized. This is the July program of JW Broadcasting.
There are people who believe there is no need for a religious organization.
They feel they have their own personal relationship with God and that is good enough.
They see no need to be associated with a specific organization. However,
what does God's own inspired word suggest that he would use an organization or channel
through which spiritual food would be dispensed from his word, the Bible. For example,
1 Peter chapter 2 verse 17 says to have love for the whole association of brothers.
One dictionary definition for association is an organization of persons having a common interest.
We have a very interesting insightful look at the organization in the first century.
If we glance down through chapter 15 of the Book of Acts, we can gain some insight.
Verse 1 indicates there was an issue that caused a disagreement between some of the members of
the congregation. Then verse 2 says, but after quite a bit of dissension and disputing by Paul and
Barnabas with them, it was arranged for Paul, Barnabas, and some of the others to go up to the
apostles and elders in Jerusalem regarding this issue. Sounds like an organization to me.
And after considerable discussion and with the help of God's Holy Spirit, what transpired?
Verse 22 and 23 say, then the apostles and the elders together with the whole congregation
decided to send chosen men from among them to Antioch, along with Paul and Barnabas. They sent
Judas, who was called Barcebus and Silas, who were leading men among the brothers.
They wrote this and sent it through them. Then in verses 23 through 29 is the letter of direction
that was delivered to Antioch and other congregations as well. In fact, in verse 41, it says Paul and
Silas went through Syria and Selissia strengthening the congregations. Chapter 16 verse 5 says,
then indeed the congregations continued to be made firm in the faith and to increase the
number day by day. So it was not a matter of isolated Christians sitting at home,
claiming to have a personal relationship with God. No. The work was organized and congregations kept
being added day by day. That is very similar to what we see in Jehovah's organization today.
In fact, the organization of Jehovah's Witnesses has patterned after the first century Christian
congregation as said forth in the scriptures. I would like to remind all of Jehovah's Witnesses
where they're already baptized or working toward baptism of this book, organized to do Jehovah's
will. It provides an overall view of how the Christian congregation is organized for getting
God's work done. The book also offers counsel and direction to help us maintain unity with our
brothers worldwide. New ones need to become familiar with the operation of Jehovah's organization
and learn how they can have a share in the modern day preaching work. In fact,
when a Bible student progresses and desires to join us in the ministry as an unbaptized publisher,
the elders direct him to make a study of this book, including the questions for those desiring to
get baptized in the appendix. Even for those of us who have been baptized many years,
it may be good to schedule the reading of one chapter of the book each week during our personal
study or family worship. It contains general information concerning the duties of elders and
ministerial servants, judicial procedures, and various other features of congregation organization.
I would like to take a few minutes and review some of the information in chapter one of the publication.
Though there are thousands of national and international organizations around the world,
they are organized according to human viewpoints and philosophies. But our organization is different.
It is theocratic. That means it is ruled by Jehovah as head overall. Isaiah chapter 33 verse 22 says
he is our judge, logiver, and king. Many larger organizations appoint a chief executive officer
or CEO. He is the executive with the chief decision-making authority in a business or corporation.
In a similar way, Jehovah has appointed his son Jesus to be the one with chief decision-making
authority over the congregation of God. Ephesians chapter 1 verse 22 is speaking of Jehovah's
actions and connection with Jesus. It says he also subjected all things under his feet and made him
head over all things with regard to the congregation. We see the structure of the organization taking
shape. Jehovah is the universal sovereign, the king, directing the millions of angels making up his
heavenly organization. But when it comes to directing the visible earthly part of God's organization,
he has delegated that responsibility to Jesus, the head of the congregation of God.
Chapter 2 of the organized book explains the scriptural position of Jesus.
And how does Jesus direct the organization here on earth? Matthew 24, 45 says that Jesus has
appointed a faithful and discrete slave to serve spiritual food at the proper time.
Today, seven anointed men make up the faithful slave, and collectively, they are known as the
governing body. And Jesus uses the Holy Spirit to direct these men in harmony with the scriptures.
The scriptural basis for this layer of organization is set forth in chapter 3 of the book.
Chapter 4 is titled How the congregation is organized and governed.
The organizational structure incorporates branch committees, circuit overseers, elders,
and ministerial servants. The subject index in the back of the book can be useful to quickly gain
access to information on various aspects of the organization.
Suppose you're a young person, maybe even a relatively young married couple.
The circuit overseer is visiting, and he asks you what spiritual goals you have.
How would you answer? Would your mind start racing trying to think of various avenues of service
available? How about now, before you are asked such a question, look in the subject index
under goals. There are 11 references to paragraphs in the book on that subject.
After reading about all of the possibilities and different categories you'd be in a better
position to plan your life for a great future in the earthly part of Jehovah's organization.
At this time, I would like to draw your attention to a very important factor in a new ones making
progress and attaining spiritual stability. On page 213 of the organized book,
it discusses a person interested in being baptized. After the elders go over the questions in part
3 of the book, it says this, if he has not completed his study of the Bible teach in God's love books,
the elders should make arrangements for someone to help him do so. The two books complement each
other so well. When someone becomes a dedicated and baptized servant of Jehovah, we want him to stay
closely attached to the organization. Yet every year, there are a number who stop attending meetings
and become inactive. At times, it has been found that they did not finish studying the two books.
You see, the Bible Teachbook helps new ones to have an accurate knowledge of the Bible,
and they often learn to love Jehovah. The keep yourselves in God's love book helps us to learn
to apply the Bible and live in harmony with Jehovah's standards. Notice what Jesus told his faithful
apostles at John chapter 15 and verse 10. If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my
love just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in His love. Did you notice
that Jesus remained in God's love by observing His Father's commandments? The same is true of us
today. To remain in God's love, we need to apply the truth in our everyday life.
And what is the result if we keep ourselves in God's love? It is so clearly stated in Jude
verse 21, in order to keep yourselves in God's love while you await the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ
with ever-lasting life in view. Staying in God's love results in ever-lasting life.
It is so important to make sure our Bible students complete a study of both books,
and that applies to our children too. Sometimes as parents, we can assume that our children are
developing a trusting relationship with Jehovah because they've been going to meetings since they
were very small. A relationship with Jehovah does not happen by means of osmosis. A child does not
simply absorb and assimilate truth and a love for God just by being in the presence of others
who have a close relationship with Jehovah. We very much appreciate all the videos we have in
including become Jehovah's Friend and JW Broadcasting. But new ones and young ones need to be able
to go through the process of deep study to get to the Bible's truth and it etched into their minds
and lodged deep into their hearts. Therefore, if you parents realize that you have not studied both
books with your young ones, it would be good to see that a schedule is established to do so.
The governing body gives all credit for the success of this organization to Jehovah and the
appointed head of the congregation Jesus Christ. We are just imperfect men trying to follow the
lead of Christ in the Holy Spirit. At 1 Corinthians chapter 1 verse 26, Paul says,
for you see his calling of your brothers that there are not many wise in a fleshly way.
Verse 27 says, but God chose the foolish things of the world to put the wise men to shame. Then
verse 30 says that Christ Jesus has become to us wisdom from God. That is where the direction and
wisdom of the organization comes from, not from mere man. The words of Jehovah to the Prophet
Zechariah fit today when we see the amazing advances in the organization. Zechariah 46 says,
not by a military force nor by power, but by my spirit says Jehovah of armies.
While there are some well-educated and prominent men who have accepted the truth and are now our
fellow brothers, the majority in the organization come from a more humble background. For example,
among the first of Jehovah's modern-day servants who introduced the kingdom message to people in
Denmark was a shoemaker. In Switzerland and France, it was a gardener. In many parts of Africa,
the message was carried by itinerant workers. In Brazil, sailors had a share. Quite a few of the
Polish witnesses in northern France were coal miners. Jehovah and Jesus used all of us to get a
remarkable work accomplished. We are proud to be a part of this spirit-directed organization.
As one older circuit overseer was heard to say, this is the best imperfect organization on earth.
There are no perfect organizations on earth. However, this is the best of them all.
And we appreciate the contribution all of you make to the success of the preaching work worldwide.
With that contribution in mind, consider for a moment the huge low-delders caring and caring for
our congregations. Some of them are now advanced in age. So how can young brothers be trained to
qualify for increased responsibilities? In this dramatization, a congregation faces a change
on its elder body that brought that question to the fore. We're very happy for Daniel.
He's going to be a blessing in his new assignment, but we are going to miss him.
And everything he was doing for the congregation, this will change things for us.
We really want to be there for our brothers and sisters. And it's true, having plenty to do in
the Lord's work is good. But where will we get more help? We do have good ministerial servants
like Richie. But after Daniel left, our older body is one fewer now. That prompted a good question.
Are we doing all we can to train our brothers? Richie, do you have some time for me?
I have some calls you can help me with. Sure, I'd like that.
Realized it had been a while since we talked about him qualifying to do more.
He explained he wanted to help but didn't want to appear presumptuous.
He'd been praying about it and he wanted to know what else he could do to keep reaching out.
Talking to Richie made me think of Jesus' example. His disciples offered themselves willingly
and he trained them. They were eager but needed his direction.
Jesus' training gave them confidence to do the assignments he gave them. They were happy.
Not just to follow Jesus but to work alongside him.
And Jesus was happy to share his work. Up to his final evening with them,
he prepared them for the work ahead. Most truly I say to you, whoever exercises faith in me
will also do the works that I do and he will do works greater than these because I am going my way
to the Father. I now remember how much training I had received from the brothers.
It was easy to forget that I didn't always get things right at first.
Soon Richie was taken on more responsibility and he told me something that I too once felt.
He just didn't realize how much work went into caring for Jehovah's sheep but once he knew
he was glad he offered himself willingly. We commend all our hardworking elders for their fine work
and also those of you who support them whether you are a ministerial servant or
perhaps the wife of an elder. Without your help and support, it would be very difficult for our
dear elders to carry out their weighty responsibilities. While there is a lot of work to be done on
a local level, there is an unprecedented global effort to provide spiritual food to all of God's
people. Under the direction of the teaching committee of the governing body, the audio video services
department or AVS takes the lead in producing audio and video publications.
It's been said that if a picture is worth a thousand words, then a video is worth a million.
Videos stir our emotions, don't they? And they can be very powerful teaching tools.
Brother Russell recognized this fact. Back in 1914, the small group of Bible students presented
the photodrama of creation to over nine million people worldwide. And the response was overwhelming.
It was clear that Jehovah blessed their efforts at spreading the Bible's message in a visual way.
Well, over a hundred years later, the faithful discrete slave is producing videos.
And for many years, basically, one large public release video was being released or produced
each year. For example, back in 2011, the video Faith and Action Part Two was released.
And it required a tremendous effort to produce the video master, the audio tracks, the graphics,
the music, the on-screen text for one video. However, just five years later, the work has grown from
producing an average of one video per year to one video per day. This is because videos are now
a regular part of our website. The broadcasts are ministry, the conventions, meetings, and other
special events. In 2016, more than 350 videos were produced. Under the direction of the teaching
committee, audio video services has been entrusted with this work. But with this rapid increase
in the amount of videos produced, how is all this accomplished? Perhaps you've heard the expression,
it takes a village. In this case, it takes an entire globe. Now, please enjoy the following video
for a close-up look at how audio and video work is accomplished worldwide.
Ready? Action! To assist with the growing workload in audio video services,
the governing body has approved 11 full-time regional video teams in branches around the world.
But it doesn't stop there. Bethelites, commuters, and remote workers in many other branches also
provide valuable assistance. How do we work with all these teams? After receiving direction from
the governing body committees for upcoming videos, AVS then assigns each video to a capable team.
Once the team accepts the assignment, we provide them with a necessary direction,
as well as answer any questions they may have. Then, the team goes to work.
Because of being a small group, each team member may have to wear multiple hats to get the job done.
From start to finish, they all work very hard to deliver a completed edited video to us by the
designated time. Later, you may see these videos on JW Broadcasts, JW.org or other places.
Would you like to meet some of our RVT family?
It's a privilege. We meet friends who have suffered some hardships and trials.
But because of their trust in Jehovah, they were able to overcome them, and we see the
results of their loyalty. I think it strengthens our determination to also stay loyal.
We are a joyful team, with a lot of humor, and we work together very harmoniously.
You could say that we are like a little family. We look forward to the next day when we go to work
again. It's unbelievable how many dear brothers and sisters we've gotten to know through these
projects. Close ties can develop, and it is not uncommon that tears flow when the project is
over, and it is time to say goodbye.
Sometimes we would film on private or state property, and I would have to approach the manager and
let them know what we were planning to shoot at the location. This wasn't easy for me because
I'm not very good with words. And many people in Korea tend to have a biased view of
Jehovah's Witnesses, so this made it even harder for me. So I pray to Jehovah, asking for his
guidance and wisdom. I was surprised to find that many were more than willing to help us.
These experiences helped me to realize that Jehovah always answers our prayers for strength and
courage. You have to balance your time around work, around being ahead of family,
being an elder or other responsibilities that you have with congregation. That's when you really
see Jehovah's hand when you see the mountain of challenge, but you overcome it, and you know it
wasn't you. It was impossible for you to do it yourself. When I put even half the amount of energy
and effort that I do into working for Jehovah into something secular, I'm wiped out. I need a
vacation. But the more I put into working for Jehovah, the more I want to work. To know that you
are offering your skills to Jehovah, that is a blessing, but really the blessing is seeing your
relationship with Jehovah thrive and be stronger. And you can see that he does keep his promises
and that he supports you more than you're supporting him. Many of us aren't able to be full-time
Bethelites, but commuting really helps us get that small snippet of what it's like to be a Bethelite
and realize what a privilege it is. And if you've got a specific talent, use it. One day,
in paradise, someone's going to come to you and say, how did you use your talent? Maybe you're
a brilliant artist and you're going to proudly turn around and say, you know what, I used for Jehovah.
Even if you're young, you can learn skills and you can really assist Jehovah's organization
now and in the future. And there is no better boss to work for than Jehovah. My advice to young
ones. Go for it. And during this past year, we were excited to add a new team to our AVS family,
located in Miroloma, California. All in this group have made themselves available for video needs
out there. You're able to take a person, you're able to take an individual that has dedicated their
life to Jehovah. And maybe they didn't know at the time that they were going to inspire somebody
else and have somebody somewhere across the planet say, wow, that's exactly my life, too. I'm so
glad that this person was selected to be on here because that's my life. And that has triggered
me to want to do more for Jehovah. You know, Jehovah's Holy Spirit, he's putting together a team.
He's the great producer. And what he really wants is he wants people that have the talent,
but he wants people that have the Holy Spirit more and are willing to work for it.
But he gives you the ability like a holy ab and bezel to be able to put your talents that you've
learned to work for him. As you can see, we're part of a beautiful hard working global team.
With so many hands helping the load in so many time zones, we're literally working on videos 24-7.
It's a great privilege to work alongside our extended family. We learn from each other.
They're willing spirit, humble attitude, and contagious joy inspire all of us here in AVS.
Additionally, we receive incredible support right at home to virtually every department at
Bethel supports the audio video work in some way. And we are very, very thankful.
With everyone's help, the Bible's message is being spread visually throughout the earth
at unprecedented levels. But how is any of this possible? Brother Russell said it best,
this is not man's work, it's gods. Jehovah is certainly at the helm.
As he foretold that hey guy chapter 2 and verse 7, I will shake all the nations and the
precious things of all the nations will come in and I will fill this house with glory.
There is certainly a great shaking taking place worldwide. And many of these precious ones are offering
themselves willingly to help audio video services accomplish this great work. Thanks to Jehovah God,
our grand and visual instructor. Our videos are a fantastic provision from Jehovah.
And what a teaching tool they have become. We get many letters of appreciation about the use of
our videos in our midweek meetings. And I agree, the videos make the meetings so much more dynamic.
For example, the week of July 17, we will be considering the part, do you forgive yourself?
Which includes a video that we first saw at the 2016 regional convention.
Make it a habit to prepare for these video considerations just as thoroughly as you would any
other part. Your well prepared comments will benefit the whole congregation.
And when we arrive at the kingdom hall for a meeting, don't you agree that we all feel refreshed
the moment we see the smiling faces of our brothers and sisters? That's how I feel.
Sometimes we can even take our beautiful meeting location for granted.
But did you know that a lot of work goes into making sure that our kingdom halls are well utilized?
The Worldwide Design Construction Department, or WDC, is tasked with analyzing our worldwide needs
and providing direction to local design construction departments on how best to use our dedicated funds.
As we approach the end of the present system of things, Jehovah continues to speed up the work.
We now have more than 62,000 kingdom halls worldwide, and the demand is still growing.
Jehovah's blessing on the kingdom work is undeniable, as this could not have been accomplished otherwise.
Many have been working for years in support of kingdom hall and assembly hall construction
projects, most recently as part of the local design construction or LDC program.
This program was implemented during the 2014 service year and unifies the approach for
construction of kingdom halls worldwide. What has been accomplished since the program started?
At the end of the 2000 service year, half of the publisher's worldwide met in suitable meeting
places. However, the other half, approximately 3 million publishers, met in places that were
overcrowded or otherwise unsuitable as kingdom halls. At that time, 27,000 kingdom halls were needed.
By 2014, the number of publishers meeting in unsuitable facilities had been reduced,
but due to growth in the organization, this still meant that 1.6 million publishers
did not have a suitable meeting place. Since 2014, that figure has been reduced by 25%.
What accounts for this significant reduction in the backlog, allowing us to catch up faster than
in the past? Part of the answer lies in making efficient use of the facilities we already have.
When providing food for thousands, Jesus made it clear that nothing should be wasted.
The LDC program applies that principle to the seats in our kingdom halls. As noted earlier,
we have 62,000 kingdom halls worldwide. On average, only 60% of the seats are filled for
congregation meetings. That means that approximately 3 to 4 million seats are empty during congregation
meetings each week. There are a number of options to help make better use of these seats,
which will make the use of each kingdom hall more efficient. Consider, for example, a kingdom hall
in an urban area. It has 200 seats and is used by four congregations sharing the facility.
That means the kingdom hall will be in use for four weeknight meetings and four weekend meetings.
It would definitely appear to be fully utilized and suggest the need for new construction
for further growth. However, how many seats were in the kingdom hall? 200.
Multiplyed by meetings for the four congregations, this facility has a total seating capacity of 800
people. Global records indicate that congregations using this size kingdom hall have an average
attendance of 120 at their meetings. This could mean that only 480 seats are used by the four
congregations in this kingdom hall and 320 seats remain empty, not very efficient.
If the four congregations were redistributed into three congregations,
average meeting attendance for each congregation would increase to about 160 per meeting,
while still fitting comfortably in that kingdom hall. And this would now allow for an open slot
in the schedule, which could be used to meet needs in the area without requiring new construction.
In the first three years of the LDC program, fully utilizing our existing facilities
played a part in reducing the backlog of kingdom hall projects from 14,000 to approximately
10,000. This saved millions of dollars. Of course, this does not meet every need,
and there's still a significant need to construct new kingdom halls to provide suitable
places of worship. How does the branch office make these decisions and how our priority set?
All options are examined as the branch committees work with their local design construction
and service departments. Transportation needs such as distance, opportunities for carpooling,
and availability of public transportation are taken into account.
In many cases, congregations can be sized to make better use of available seats in kingdom halls
that have already been built. However, when they are needed, new kingdom halls can be constructed
using simple standard designs that make wise use of denated funds. Of course, all of this must
be done with a big picture in mind. It is the spiritual needs of the congregations that are
of the utmost priority. The structures themselves are not the focus of the centers of pure worship,
but rather it is the people who use the facilities. On one occasion, as they passed the temple,
Mark 131 quotes one of Jesus' disciples admiring the structure when he said,
Teach us see what wonderful stones and buildings. However, Jesus reply simply indicated that the
building itself would not last. It was people Jesus was concerned with. Likewise, the kingdom halls
that we built today were not last forever, but these centers of pure worship bring people together
so that we can serve Jehovah as a united group, and that will last forever.
Whether we assist in the construction of the many kingdom halls that are still needed,
or help to renovate and maintain existing kingdom halls, it is our shared privilege to help
provide suitable meeting places for our brothers and sisters. In this way, we each support the
faithful and discreet slave as they provide what is needed so that each congregation can praise
Jehovah in a suitable place of worship. Brother Thomas Calameras, who serves at the United States
branch together with his wife, has spent close to four decades supporting various aspects
of the organization's construction projects. What does that experience taught him?
That the work is not run by us.
Throughout history, men have built many beautiful and impressive buildings.
These structures have usually brought glory to men, not to God, but those men are long gone,
and even many of the structures no longer exist. How true is the Scripture in Psalm 1271,
unless Jehovah builds the house, it is in vain that its builders work hard on it.
In our time too, Jehovah is using his people to build. We're working hard to build spirituality
on interested ones, and also we build structures in order to help individuals to learn about Jehovah
and serve him. In this type of construction, both spiritually and physical construction, I've been
involved for most of my life. I was born in Greece, our family came into contact with the truth
in the early 60s. I was baptized when I was in high school. I left school to get some practical
training and architecture, but I made pioneering my career. In 1973, I met my dear wife, Margaret,
and together we enjoy many assignments, we pioneer, special pioneering. We went to Gilead.
We were invited to Bethel in 1979 to work in the engineering department. We worked on designing new
branches, assembly halls, kingdom halls, renovation of existing branches, and remote translation offices.
Before we came to Bethel, we had seen how Jehovah provided for us individually, but now we had the
opportunity to see how Jehovah provided for the needs of his organization globally.
By the year 2000, we became apparent that the present facility of the Britain branch was not
meeting their needs. So, a site was located 50 miles north of London to relocate the branch
there. However, the governing body decided to cancel the project. So, in 2008, the governing body
wrote that now is a time, Jehovah's time, to find a property closer to London. So, a project
was formed and a few years went by and a number of properties were searched and one was located
closer to London. If something we plan falls through, it could mean that Jehovah has something else
or better in mind to meet the needs of his organization. Well, working in the Haiti branch,
we learn a lesson not to compromise on safety. The Brooklyn Engineering Department did the drawings
for the branch and a local contractor was hired to build the structural work. Now, the contractor,
when he reviewed the drawings, told the branch committee that, really, this is over-design,
you're wasting a lot of money by putting all that still in the building. So, we wrote back and
said, no, the drawings are okay. The branch is designed according to the seismic zone that is in
and the contractor to go ahead with the plans as drawn. In 2010, when the earthquake came into Haiti,
hundreds of thousands of people died because of inferior materials and methods of construction.
However, the branch did not suffer any damage and many people went there to find refuge.
We are so glad that Jehovah did not allow us to be swayed in this case. Jehovah continues to
direct a great physical building work and a spiritual work. Jehovah trains his people how to
work together for the work just ahead of us, the beautification of this earth to a paradise.
It is so important that we trust in Jehovah and not to lean upon our own understanding.
A life of building with Jehovah has shown me the wisdom of Psalm 1271. If we keep building our
lives with Jehovah, our building work will never be in vain. The more responsibility a brother is
given in the organization, the less he feels he is in control. Instead, he will clearly see how
Jehovah takes the lead in the organization. Brother Kalimeras' experience confirms that.
The account about how the branch in Haiti was protected from earthquake damage sent chills down my
spine. While some buildings looked like this, our branch looked like this. It wasn't the ingenuity of
the brothers that protected the branch, but wisdom only Jehovah can provide. How can we apply that
same wisdom in our lives? Let's consider three ways we can do so.
Jehovah has warned us that we're living in critical times hard to deal with.
And Jesus foretold that in the last days, there would be great earthquakes in one place after
another and other fearful sites. Many of us either have or will be affected by some form of natural
disaster. If this happens, how can we be prepared? First, we can prepare spiritually by maintaining
a close relationship with Jehovah. He is the God of all comfort, and he can comfort us in times of
tribulation. How does he do this? We do not expect divine intervention, but if we pray during times of
distress, his powerful Holy Spirit can bring Bible passages back to mind to comfort us.
Second, we can take practical steps, perhaps preparing an emergency kit.
Our kit could contain the following items if possible.
First aid supplies, bottled water, and non-perishable food. Also, we shouldn't forget to update
the elders with our latest contact information. If we don't do so, valuable time could be lost
in a disaster. Additionally, during a family worship evening, our family could review the types
of disasters that might happen and what could be done in each situation, such as where we meet,
how we contact the elders, and so forth. And third, we can help others when they're experiencing a
disaster knowing they do the same for us. How can we do this? By offering prayers in their behalf.
By volunteering to assist with disaster relief efforts, and by contributing donations to the
worldwide work. No, we can't avoid all natural disasters, but if we prepare spiritually,
practically, and help others currently affected, we can take comfort in knowing that in Jehovah's
Eyes, we are prepared. That was great practical advice for all of us to take to heart,
but there are some things we can do to help our local congregation. Let's turn briefly to
interview brother Bram Siegel, who's with the co-ordinators committee office.
Bram, how can all of us cooperate with the congregation arrangement when a disaster hits?
Immediately after a disaster occurs, each field service group overseer will contact everyone in
his group to make sure that all are accounted for, and to make sure if anyone needs assistance.
So each of us should make sure to give the elders our up-to-date contact information.
That way they can reach us when something happens.
That's a very important reminder, good point. But what if my area was not hit by the disaster,
but an adjacent town or city was? Can I just travel there on my own to help or what should I do?
We really appreciate the beautiful spirit the Brotherhood shows when it comes to providing disaster
relief. Really, the best time to make yourself available to help is right now before a disaster occurs.
Just ask your local elders for an application. Later, when there's a need to provide disaster
relief, the branch office will know that you're willing and ready to assist.
Thank you very much, Bram, for those important reminders.
Thank you. When large disasters occur, our brothers and sisters may have to relocate,
perhaps even to another country. As refugees, they face unique challenges.
You'll notice that the Watchtower study for the week of July 3rd provides practical suggestions
on how we can support such brothers and sisters. And I'm sure you agree that the guidance
Jehovah's organization provides the love and care that we experience every day as a people
for his name, the spiritual paradise that we dwell in. All of that makes us want to praise
our Heavenly Father. This brings us to this month's music video, which is entitled, We Marvel
at Your Work.
That's beautiful and how can we show our appreciation for Jehovah's provisions
in a practical way by taking seriously our God-given assignment to preach?
And we have seen developments in our preaching methods in the past few years.
For example, in 2001, with the governing body's approval, our brothers in France started using
a variety of methods to carry out our public witnessing, including the use of carts.
The trial resulted in many good experiences. As a result, in 2011, a pilot project with
cart witnessing in New York City, USA, was approved. Since Manhattan and New York City had a ratio of
one Jehovah's Witness to 657 inhabitants, this was a perfect choice. That was the beginning of a
pilot program in Manhattan. The program lasted one year using many graduates from what was then the
school for Christian couples. Although different tables were used at the time, it was evident that a
mobile cart had many advantages. As a result, today, Jehovah's Witnesses are well-known for their
public witnessing using carts designed to display their literature. By means of this method, good news
from the Bible can be taken to many places and easily becomes available to countless people.
These carts include different posters that, call attention to our well-known publications,
invite people to accept free home Bible studies, and direct passers-by to our official website.
Here are just a few examples of how this method has had many good results.
My name is Mi Jong Yu. The first time I met Jehovah's Witnesses was more than 20 years ago.
I started studying in the You Can Live Forever book, but about a month later, I had to stop studying.
After that, I would accept the magazines, but I never ended up studying the Bible again.
In June of 2014, though, I saw the public witnessing stand. I realized that it belonged to
Jehovah's Witnesses. So many of the different publications they had caught my eye, so I asked if it
would be okay if I took a copy of each one. We ended up exchanging numbers, and a few weeks later,
the brother contacted me. I began studying the Bible again with a couple, and one month later,
started attending meetings regularly. I was baptized in October of 2015, and started
auxiliary pioneering right away for 10 months. Now I'm serving as a regular pioneer. Public witnessing
helped me find a truth, and it's a way for me to meet people that are interested like I was.
I have really come to cherish the public witnessing work.
My name is Rakob Salome. I work as a driver and spend most of my life traveling all over Peru.
Because of this, I had problems with the woman I was living with.
I never spent time at home and practically lived in the truck.
I would see Jehovah's Witnesses preaching on the streets near the buses,
but since I was always driving, I couldn't park or even talk to them.
But once I saw some witnesses preaching in a public square,
so I went up to them to ask them what the Bible says about family matters.
This marked a change in my life. My girlfriend and I began attending meetings,
and then we got married and got baptized. Now we are Jehovah's Witnesses.
As Annie's and I were standing by our cart, we met Young Sodashan.
Annie showed him our tract. Can the dead really live again? He was surprised and said,
how is it possible? When she explained to him, Acts 24-15, he exclaimed,
I am a Christian. I never knew this. I asked him, would you like to learn more about such wonderful
things from the Bible? He asked, can you tell me right now? There and then I discussed the
first chapter of the textbook. That's how it started. Sodashan bought his friend Saga.
Saga in turn brought Shiva and Shrikant along. Three of them are attending our meetings regularly.
Saga even turned down a job offer that conflicted with Bible principles.
One tract resulted in many Bible studies. We can really see Jehovah's blessing
on this form of public witnessing. Without a doubt,
cart witnessing is being used to help preach the good news of God's kingdom in all the inhabited
earth for a witness to all the nations. The examples we've seen in this program,
truly highlight how Jehovah and Jesus used all of us to get an unprecedented work accomplished.
We've seen how young brothers are trained to take the lead in the congregations,
how videos are produced around the world for our spiritual benefit,
the work that goes into better utilizing our kingdom halls,
how wisdom from Jehovah benefits our construction work, and how appropriate it is to praise our
heavenly Father for all His words. And last, we were encouraged to continue in our public
witnessing efforts as we clearly see Jehovah's blessing. Yes, we are proud to be Jehovah's
witnesses. This is the best organization on earth. To conclude, we'd like to share this postcard
from Iceland. Almost 335,000 people live on this North Atlantic island nation of which
about 380 are Jehovah's witnesses. Iceland is known for being the land of ice and fire as it has
both a lot of volcanic activity but also Europe's largest glacier. In their free time,
the witnesses in Iceland enjoy hiking in the beautiful nature riding on horseback on Icelandic
horses. The preaching work in Iceland began in 1929 where the Lindel was the only publisher on the
island for nearly 18 years. Today, the 380 publishers conduct approximately 270 Bible studies and almost
700 people attended the memorial of Christ's death last year. In the winter, the sun is up only
for a few hours. While the witnesses use the limited sunlight wisely going from door to door or
business witnessing, they are not scared by the darkness. Some congregations use tiny lights on
their public witnessing carts so that the pastors by will see the cards. Also, the weather in Iceland
can change quickly to prevent literature from being damaged by rain or other weather elements.
Some congregations use plastic covers on the literature. In 2011, a Polish group was established
in the capital city of Reykjavik in 2016, a congregation with over 40 publishers was formed.
Today, they conduct over 20 Bible studies. All the brothers and sisters in Iceland
send their warm Christian love. We pray that Jehovah will continue to bless their efforts in praising
his name. This is JW Broadcasting from the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses.